
    Taiwanese regional budget carrierV Air will go out of business in October after less than two years of operation because of competition and low passenger loads, pointing to saturation in its homeland's discount aviation market, airline officials and analysts said.

    V Air's parent company TransAsia Airways said on 9 August it would stop all routes by the discount carrier that launched in December 2014 as Taiwan's first locally owned budget airline, TransAsia will pick up two of V Air's seven routes and try to rehire some of its 200 staff people, the company's marketing vice president Chen Yi-Chieh told Asian Aviation, "In 2014, the environment for low-cost carriers wasn't quite the same," Chen said, JJThere weren't so many brands in the market then.

    So the industry has changed a lot."

    V Air's combined total of more than 530,000 passengers could not earn the airline enough to stay in business, analysts believe. Other budget airlines, such as the Singapore joint venture Tigerair Taiwan, have cut into its business. In May, eight Asian budget airlines formed a low-cost carrier alliance to add routes and step up passenger convenience, but V Air was not among them, V Air also relied heavily on secondary routes, which may lack infrastructure or passenger demand, said Eric Lin, Asia transport researcher with UBS Securities Asia. IJThe lack of scale is a problem for some of the startup airlines," Lin added, "It's so capital intensive that you have to scale."

    The Taiwanese low-fare airline flew mainly to cities in Japan, which is dominated by traditional carriers, and in Southeast Asia where local budget carriers control much of the market, said Tina Chen, aviation analyst with SinoPac Securities in Taipei, V Air's closure effective 1 October follows a series of route cancellations, which the company may have hoped would keep it in business. The airline had planned in early 2015 to change its scheduled charter flights from Taipei to Siem Reap in Cambodia to regular service but called off the plan, In June this year it announced the cancellation of four flights per week from Taipei to Manila just months after starting it, In July the airline spiked its three weekly flights between Taipei and Macau.

    But V Air routes from Taiwan to Bangkok and Chiang Mai were running at more than 77 percent capacity, TransAsia said, TransAsia will take over the V Air Chiang Mai route and another to Fukuoka, Japan.

    Closures of budget airlines and absorption into bigger ones are hardly new to Asia, which has seen brisk growth in its low-cost market over the past decade. Long-haul carrier Oasis Hong Kong Airlines, for example, stopped flying in April 2008 after three years and in Japan, ANA took over the country's first budget carrier, Air Do in 2000, - RALPH JENNINGS